Title: v0.5.1 released (also Authl v0.1.6)
Tag: release
Tag: authl
Date: 2019-08-10 02:04:19-07:00
Entry-ID: 10
UUID: 38eec990-a43a-5de2-a1d8-bb30b60a7a37
Ping: https://news.indieweb.org/en u-category

Oh gosh I seem to be on a roll with these updates again. Here's what changed in Publ:

* Fixed a silly bug in the admin dashboard renderer which made it not work in production mode
* Make the admin log only record the most recent access per user per entry, making it way more useful
* Make the [logout operation](324#logout_link) happen via POST method rather than GET, fixing a problem with browser prefetching; added a `logout.html` template to support that. (Also made the default `unauthorized.html` use Authl's default CSS.)
* Actually make [`entry.authorized`](115#authorized) available, rather than just documented. Also gave it a better name while I was at it.
* [`view.entries`](150#entries) can now take an optional argument for inlining unauthorized entries, improving its usage within feeds.
* [`view.unauthorized`](150#unauthorized) can now take an optional argument for limiting the unauthorized view count, which helps performance and makes it a bit more predictable
* Images now provide their filename as the default alt text, which is arguably better for accessibility than just leaving it a blank string. I am willing to change my mind on this, however.
* Cleaned up the code around `category.subcats(recurse=True)` and also added some actual tests for the sort ordering. They pass.

And the Authl changes (which were actually released before Publ 0.5.0 but I didn't bother announcing them until I had them tested "in the wild"):

* Changed to using packaged data for templates
* Made the login page CSS available through `url_for`
* Removed the spurious precision from the email message template

Anyway, I of course updated the [sample beesbuzz.biz templates](https://github.com/PlaidWeb/Publ-templates-beesbuzz.biz) to reflect the new functionality.

Wow, Publ's feeling like it's actually kinda pretty good at stuff now. I hope someone else ever wants to actually, like, use it or something.
