Title: Publ v0.5.7, now with theoretical AutoAuth support!
Tag: release
Tag: auth
Tag: AutoAuth
Syndication: https://news.indieweb.org/en
Entry-ID: 269
UUID: ea72944c-0743-57cf-a40d-4d3706567472
Date: 2019-10-29 21:38:32-07:00

There is only one feature for this new release of Publ, but it's a big one -- there is (theoretical) support for [AutoAuth](https://indieweb.org/AutoAuth)! That's right, deploy this version and people should be able to magically log on to your website using unattended IndieAuth providers.

Unfortunately, there aren't any tools that I know of which actually support this mode of operation; all testing has been manual and In Theory.

Fortunately, if someone does want to test AutoAuth (or IndieAuth Bearer authentication in general), you can test it out on this site! You can use [this entry](20191029 secret.md) as an individual entry, and [this category](/blog/?date=201910) or [this feed](/blog/feed?date=201910) to see how well it works with the "partial public" path.

Also, [this page](/userinfo) will tell you all sorts of useful information about the current user (if any).

And I'd might as well use this opportunity to show off the [admin dashboard](/_admin) -- just sign in as the user `test:admin` to see how it looks.

==EDIT:== Looks like there's some weird interaction between caching and authentication on non-https sites. Well, that's annoying. I'll probably try to fix that at some point, but it's not really a good idea to do non-https logins anyway. For now I'm disabling all third-party login (only `test:` will work) and if you're getting something weird with login not working, try shift-reloading to force the page to reload.