Title: v0.6.0 released!
Tag: release
Tag: milestone
Syndication: https://news.indieweb.org/en
Date: 2020-03-07 15:07:06-08:00
Entry-ID: 57
UUID: 2ba03b0f-301e-59ec-a8e2-ab9074f8027f

The [0.6 milestone](https://github.com/PlaidWeb/Publ/milestone/6) has finally been completed, so Publ 0.6.0 is now released!

Changes since v0.5.16:

* Fix some startup bugs around file fingerprint checking
* Make `category.tags` use the most-recently-seen capitalization of any given tag
* Make view tag tests case-insensitive (so tag browsers have a chance of working correctly)
* Add some basic unit tests and coverage analysis
* Fix some bugs which were shaken out by the unit testing (go figure!)

And, since this is a new milestone, what's improved since v0.5.0? [Quite a lot!](https://github.com/PlaidWeb/Publ/compare/v0.5.0..v0.6.0) 237 commits, in fact. Here's some of the features that stand out to me in the change log:

* Testing!
* Major improvements to entry authentication, both for performance and admin usability
* Footnotes!
* Tables of contents!
* Improved support for tag browsing, including filter constraints!
* Support for image renditions in arbitrary HTML attributes
* IndieAuth c2s support (groundwork for apps like MicroPub), and a first pass at s2s (for AutoAuth)
* Lots and lots of bug fixes

At this point I feel like Publ is very usable and flexible, and I would love to see more people give it a try. At some point I need to do a documentation push --- both improving the quality of the user documentation (it's gotten to be quite a mess!) and also making this site more of a demo of what Publ can do.

This is something I'd love to get some [help with](/github-site).
