Title: Publ v0.7.26 released
Tag: release
Syndication: https://news.indieweb.org/en
Date: 2023-08-21 02:45:00-07:00
Entry-ID: 274
UUID: adaa6960-823e-505d-8783-3d4953e0d95a

Here's some new bugfixes and features!

* OpenGraph tags now validate per the W3C validator
* Images can now take a value of [link=True](335#link) in order to force a link to the full-size rendition *without* setting a lightbox gallery ID
* Links will no longer include the template name if it's the same as the category default (so you no longer need to do annoying things like `view.link(template=template if template.name != 'index')`
* Similarly, path-alias to the `index` template will now work correctly if the category's default template is *not* `index`

.....

At some point in the not-too-distant future, two major overhauls are going to need to happen to Publ:

1. [Moving away from Pony ORM](https://github.com/PlaidWeb/Publ/issues/514) to something that works with Python 3.11 (possibly SQL Alchemy or even moving to lower-level indexing)

    I really like Pony ORM, but unfortunately some of the functionality I rely on only works with Python 3.10 and earlier, and a fix doesn't seem likely to happen any time soon. (I'd love to be proven wrong, of course!)

2. [Finally replacing the Markdown processor](https://github.com/PlaidWeb/Publ/issues/261) with something that's actively-maintained

    Misaka has been in archive mode for quite some time now, as its underlying Markdown implementation (hoedown) is abandoned. It *works* but it's unclear how long it'll stay working, and I'd rather stay ahead of the game.

    Plus, Misaka complicates the build environment for Publ anyway, since on platforms without a native build in pypi, it has to fetch the sources and compile by itself, and this isn't very friendly to a lot of deployment environments. Having a pure-Python implementaton would make things a lot nicer.

    A more modern Markdown implementation would also enable a bunch of stuff that doesn't work quite right as-is, like having inline `<aside>` and `<details>` within an entry. It'd also be a good excuse to finally add a few features I've been wanting to do, such as support for inline/sidebar footnotes and opengraph media embeds.

    This would require a complete rewrite of the Markdown processing within Publ, although those changes would at least be fairly self-contained. Unfortunately, a lot of the existing Markdown-handling code is extremely specific to Misaka's quirks, so this might be something that takes a lot of iteration to get right. In particular, I worry that some of the Publ syntax extensions (particularly image rendition arguments, code block labeling, and multiple-image sets) might be difficult to support in a different engine with different parsing rules.

Also, some recent conversations have led me to realize that Publ's documentation could be a lot better. If you're interested in helping out, see [publ-site issue #33](https://github.com/PlaidWeb/publ-site/issues/33).
